docs(framework): fastai (#2649)
bentoml/BentoML: docs/source/frameworks/fastai.rst

   :ref:`Building a Service <concepts/service:Service and APIs>`: more information on creating a prediction service with BentoML.

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   import numpy as np

   from bentoml.io import Text
   from bentoml.io import NumpyNdarray

   runner = bentoml.fastai.get("fastai_sentiment:latest").to_runner()

   svc = bentoml.Service("fast_sentiment", runners=[runner])

   @svc.api(input=Text(), output=NumpyNdarray())
   def classify_text(text: str) -> np.ndarray:
      # returns sentiment score of a given text
      res = runner.predict.run(text)
      return np.asarray(res[-1])

When constructing a :ref:`bentofile.yaml <concepts/bento:Bento Build Options>`,
there are two ways to include fastai as a dependency, via ``python`` or
``conda``:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: python

      .. code-block:: yaml

         python:
         - fastai

   .. tab-item:: conda

      .. code-block:: yaml

         conda:
           channels:
           - fastchan
           dependencies:
           - fastai

Using Runners
-------------

.. seealso::

   See :ref:`concepts/runner:Using Runners` doc for a general introduction to the Runner concept and its usage.

> ``runner.predict.run`` is generally a drop-in replacement for ``learner.predict`` regardless of the learner type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``runner.predict.run`` is generally a drop-in replacement for ``learner.predict`` regardless of the learner type for executing the prediction in the model runner.
```

> A fastai :obj:`~bentoml.Runner` is a wrapper around a fastai :~obj:`Learner`
> object. This means that a fastai runner will receive the same inputs type as
> the given learner.

Reviewer: Calling runner a wrapper around the fastai learner may be an incorrect description. Maybe we can expand the previous paragraph and remove this one.
```suggestion
```

> i.e: `Tabular learner <https://docs.fast.ai/tabular.learner.html>`_ will
> accept a :obj:`DataFrame` input. Text learner will accept a :obj:`str` input, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, Runner created from a `Tabular learner <https://docs.fast.ai/tabular.learner.html>`_ model will
accept a :obj:`pandas.DataFrame` as input, where as a Text learner based runner will accept a :obj:`str` as input.
```

=======
fast.ai
=======

fastai is a popular deep learning library which provides high-level components for practioners to get state-of-the-art results in standard deep learning domains, as well as low-level components
for researchers to build new approaches. To learn more about fastai, visit their `documentation <docs.fast.ai>`_.

BentoML provides native support for `fastai <https://github.com/fastai/fastai>`_, and this guide provides an overview of how to use BentoML with fastai.

Compatibility 
-------------

BentoML requires fastai **version 2** or higher to be installed. 

> BentoML does not support fastai version 1. If you are using fastai version 1, consider using :ref:`concepts/runner:Custom Runner`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BentoML does not support fastai version 1. If you are using fastai version 1, consider using :ref:`concepts/runner:Custom Runner`.
```

   path = untar_data(URLs.IMDB)

   # Create IMDB DataBlock
   imdb = DataBlock(
       blocks=(TextBlock.from_folder(path), CategoryBlock),
       get_items=get_text_files,
       get_y=parent_label,
       splitter=GrandparentSplitter(valid_name="test"),
   )
   dls = imdb.dataloaders(path)

   # define a Learner object
   learner = text_classifier_learner(
        dls, AWD_LSTM, drop_mult=0.5, metrics=accuracy
    )

   # quickly fine tune the model
   learner.fine_tune(4, 1e-2)

   # output:
   # epoch     train_loss  valid_loss  accuracy  time
   # 0         0.453252    0.395130    0.822080  36:45

   learner.predict("I really liked that movie!")

   # output:
   # ('pos', TensorText(1), TensorText([0.1216, 0.8784]))

After training, use :obj:`~bentoml.fastai.save_model` to save the `Learner <https://docs.fast.ai/learner.html#Learner>`_ instance to BentoML model store.

.. code-block:: python

   bentoml.fastai.save_model("fastai_sentiment", learner)

To verify that the saved learner can be loaded properly:

.. code-block:: python

   learner = bentoml.fastai.load_model("fastai_sentiment:latest")

   learner.predict("I really liked that movie!")

> Building a Service for fastai
> -----------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Building a Service using fastai
--------------------------------
```

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Building a Service <concepts/service:Service and APIs>`: more information on creating a prediction service with BentoML.

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   import numpy as np

   from bentoml.io import Text
   from bentoml.io import NumpyNdarray

   runner = bentoml.fastai.get("fastai_sentiment:latest").to_runner()

>    fastsvc = bentoml.Service("fast_sentiment", runners=[runner])
> 
> 
>    @fastsvc.api(input=Text(), output=NumpyNdarray())

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   svc = bentoml.Service("fast_sentiment", runners=[runner])

   @svc.api(input=Text(), output=NumpyNdarray())
```

Reviewer 2: just `svc` as our naming convention?

   def classify_text(text: str) -> np.ndarray:
      # returns sentiment score of a given text
      res = runner.predict.run(text)
      return np.asarray(res[-1])

When constructing a :ref:`bentofile.yaml <concepts/bento:Bento Build Options>`,
there are two ways to include fastai as a dependency, via ``python`` or
``conda``:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: python

      .. code-block:: yaml

         python:
         - fastai

   .. tab-item:: conda

      .. code-block:: yaml

         conda:
           channels:
           - fastchan
           dependencies:
           - fastai

Using Runners
-------------

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`The general Runner documentation<concepts/runner:Using Runners>`: general information about the Runner concept and their usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   See :ref:`concepts/runner:Using Runners` doc for a general introduction to the Runner concept and its usage.
```

> 
>    :ref:`Specifying Runner Resources<concepts/runner:Specifying Required Resources>`: more information about Runner options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Probably not necessary since it's linking to the same page just different section

> ``runner.predict.run`` should generally be a drop-in replacement for ``learner.predict`` regardless of your learner type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``runner.predict.run`` is generally a drop-in replacement for ``learner.predict`` regardless of the learner type.
```

A fastai :obj:`~bentoml.Runner` is a wrapper around a fastai :~obj:`Learner`
object. This means that a fastai runner will receive the same inputs type as
the given learner.

i.e: `Tabular learner <https://docs.fast.ai/tabular.learner.html>`_ will
accept a :obj:`DataFrame` input. Text learner will accept a :obj:`str` input, etc.

Using PyTorch layer
-------------------

Since fastai is built on top of PyTorch, it is also possible to use PyTorch
models from within a fastai learner directly for inference. Note that by using
the PyTorch layer, you will not be able to use the fastai :~obj:`Learner`'s
features such as :code:`.predict()`, :code:`.get_preds()`, etc.

To get the PyTorch model, access it via ``learner.model``:

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   bentoml.pytorch.save_model(
      "my_pytorch_model", learner.model, signatures={"__call__": {"batchable": True}}
   )

Learn more about using PyTorch with BentoML :ref:`here <frameworks/pytorch:PyTorch>`.

Using GPU
---------

> Since fastai doesn't provide a good support for GPU during inference, BentoML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since fastai doesn't support using GPU for inference, BentoML
```

> by default will only support CPU inference for fastai.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can only support CPU inference with fastai models.
```

Additionally, if the model uses ``mixed_precision``, then the loaded model will also be converted to FP32.
See `mixed precision <https://docs.fast.ai/callback.fp16.html>`_ to learn more about mixed precision.

If you need to use GPU for inference, you can :ref:`use the PyTorch layer <frameworks/fastai:Using PyTorch layer>`.

Adaptive batching 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Note that fast.ai doesn't support for batched inputs for inference, hence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fastai's ``Learner#predict`` does not support taking batch input for inference, hence
```

=======
fast.ai
=======

fastai is a popular deep learning library which provides high-level components for practioners to get state-of-the-art results in standard deep learning domains, as well as low-level components
for researchers to build new approaches. To learn more about fastai, visit their `documentation <docs.fast.ai>`_.

BentoML provides native support for `fastai <https://github.com/fastai/fastai>`_, and this guide provides an overview of how to use BentoML with fastai.

Compatibility 
-------------

BentoML requires fastai **version 2** or higher to be installed. 

> We do not currently support version 1. If you are using fastai version 1, consider using :ref:`concepts/runner:Custom Runner`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BentoML does not support fast version 1. If you are using fastai version 1, consider using :ref:`concepts/runner:Custom Runner`
```

A fastai :obj:`~bentoml.Runner` is a wrapper around a fastai :~obj:`Learner`
object. This means that a fastai runner will receive the same inputs type as
the given learner.

i.e: `Tabular learner <https://docs.fast.ai/tabular.learner.html>`_ will
accept a :obj:`DataFrame` input. Text learner will accept a :obj:`str` input, etc.

Using PyTorch layer
-------------------

Since fastai is built on top of PyTorch, it is also possible to use PyTorch
models from within a fastai learner directly for inference. Note that by using
the PyTorch layer, you will not be able to use the fastai :~obj:`Learner`'s
features such as :code:`.predict()`, :code:`.fit()`, etc.

To get the PyTorch model, access it via ``learner.model``:

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   bentoml.pytorch.save_model(
      "my_pytorch_model", learner.model, signatures={"__call__": {"batchable": True}}
   )

Learn more about using PyTorch with BentoML :ref:`here <frameworks/pytorch:PyTorch>`.

Using GPU
---------

Since fastai doesn't provide a good support for GPU during inference, BentoML
by default will only support CPU inference for fastai. If you want to use

> GPU, you should get the ``PyTorch`` model from ``learner.model`` and then use

Reviewer 2: This duplicates with the next paragraph?

=======
fast.ai
=======

.. note::

   BentoML requires fastai version 2 or higher to be installed. We do not currently support version 1.

fastai is a deep learning library which provides both high-level components for practioners to get SOTA results in standard deep learning domains, and low-level components
for researchers to build new approaches. The abstractions can be achieved by leveraging the flexibility of the PyTorch library and its ecosystem (PyTorch Lightning, Catalyst, etc.)

fastai also provides a great sets of `documentation <docs.fast.ai>`_ and
`migration guides <https://docs.fast.ai/#Migrating-from-other-libraries>`_ from
PyTorch-related library.

Fine tuning the language model
------------------------------

.. seealso::

>    This section is based heavily on `Transfer Learning with text <https://docs.fast.ai/tutorial.text.html#The-ULMFiT-approach>`_ from fastai.

Reviewer: Let's link to the general model training documentation of fastai and ask the readers to refer to it.

Author: I thinking linking to one big blocks provides a quick value for users to see how the models can be created. Obviously we will still keep the link as the main reference.

.. code-block:: python

   from fastai.basics import URLs
   from fastai.metrics import accuracy
   from fastai.text.data import DataBlock
   from fastai.text.data import TextBlock
   from fastai.text.data import untar_data
   from fastai.text.data import CategoryBlock
   from fastai.text.models import AWD_LSTM
   from fastai.text.learner import text_classifier_learner
   from fastai.data.transforms import parent_label
   from fastai.data.transforms import get_text_files
   from fastai.data.transforms import GrandparentSplitter

   # Download IMDB dataset
   path = untar_data(URLs.IMDB)

   # Create IMDB DataBlock
   imdb = DataBlock(
       blocks=(TextBlock.from_folder(path), CategoryBlock),
       get_items=get_text_files,
       get_y=parent_label,
       splitter=GrandparentSplitter(valid_name="test"),
   )
   dls = imdb.dataloaders(path)

   # define a Learner object
   learner = text_classifier_learner(
        dls, AWD_LSTM, drop_mult=0.5, metrics=accuracy
    )

   # quickly fine tune the model
   learner.fine_tune(4, 1e-2)

   # output:
   # epoch     train_loss  valid_loss  accuracy  time
   # 0         0.453252    0.395130    0.822080  36:45

> We can then test out prediction:
> 
> .. code-block:: python
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

   learner.predict("I really liked that movie!")

   # output:
   # ('pos', TensorText(1), TensorText([0.1216, 0.8784]))

Saving a learner with BentoML
-----------------------------

   :bdg-warning:`Warning:` `Learner <https://docs.fast.ai/learner.html#Learner>`_ instance is required to save with BentoML.
   This is a design choice to preserve functionalities provided by fastai.

.. seealso::

   If you want to use the PyTorch model components of fastai ``Learner``s with BentoML, refer to the :ref:`PyTorch Framework Guide<frameworks/pytorch:PyTorch>`.

   To get the PyTorch model, access it via ``learner.model``:

   .. code-block:: python

      import bentoml

>       bentoml.pytorch.save_model("my_pytorch_model", learner.model)

Reviewer 2: move this section to after the `bentoml.fastai.save_model("fastai_sentiment", learner)` line below?

> To quickly save the trained learner, use ``save_model``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save the trained learner, use ``save_model``:
```

.. code-block:: python

   bentoml.fastai.save_model("fastai_sentiment", learner)

   # output:
   # Model(tag="fastai_sentiment:5bakmghqpk4z3gxi", path="~/bentoml/models/fastai_sentiment/5bakmghqpk4z3gxi/")

.. seealso::

>    It is also possible to **use pre-trained models** directly with BentoML, without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It is also possible to **use pre-trained models** with custom runners in BentoML, without
```

   saving it to the model store first. Check out the

>    :ref:`Custom Runner <concepts/runner:Custom Runner>` example to learn more.

Reviewer 2: is it common to use pre-trained model in this case? I'd suggest to remove it here

Author: I will remove this.

.. tip::

   If you have an existing model saved to file on disk, you will need to load the model
   in a python session first and then use BentoML's framework specific
   :code:`save_model` method to put it into the BentoML model store.

>    We recommend **always save the model with BentoML as soon as it finished training and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We recommend **always saving the model with BentoML as soon as it finished training and
```

   validation**. By putting the :code:`save_model` call to the end of your training
   pipeline, all your finalized models can be managed in one place and ready for

>    inference.

Reviewer 2: No need to repeat the core concept docs here?  lets remove them

Optionally, you may attach custom labels, metadata, or :code:`custom_objects` to be
saved alongside your model in the model store, e.g.:

.. code:: python

    bentoml.fastai.save_model(
        "fastai_sentiment",       # model name in the local model store
        learner,                  # model instance being saved
        labels={                  # user-defined labels for managing models in Yatai
            "owner": "nlp_team",
            "stage": "dev",
        },
        metadata={                # user-defined additional metadata
            "dataset_version": "20210820",
        },
        custom_objects={          # save additional user-defined python objects
            "tokenizer": tokenizer,
        }
    )

- **labels**: user-defined labels for managing models, e.g. :code:`team=nlp`, :code:`stage=dev`.
- **metadata**: user-defined metadata for storing model training context information or model evaluation metrics, e.g. dataset version, training parameters, model scores.

> - **custom_objects**: user-defined additional python objects, e.g. a tokenizer instance, preprocessor function, model configuration json, serialized with cloudpickle. Custom objects will be serialized with `cloudpickle <https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle>`_.

Reviewer 2: remove since they are not specific to fastai

> - **custom_objects**: user-defined additional python objects, e.g. a tokenizer instance, preprocessor function, model configuration json, serialized with cloudpickle. Custom objects will be serialized with `cloudpickle <https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle>`_.

Reviewer: The example is not specific to fast.ai. Let's simply link to the https://docs.bentoml.org/en/latest/concepts/model.html#save-a-trained-model section.

Author: I have this same discussion with @sauyon, and we decides that by repeating ourself here it might make it easier for end users to read about this without having to jump back and forth between two docs.

.. note::

   By default, BentoML uses ``cloudpickle`` for learner serialization. The key difference from Python's ``pickle`` is that 
   ``cloudpickle`` has the capability to serialize functions and so it can directly serialize members of the object without reference to its type.

   If the :func:`save_model` method failed while saving a given learner, your learner may contain a :obj:`~fastai.callback.core.Callback` that is not picklable.
   All FastAI callbacks are stateful, which makes some of them not picklable. Use :func:`Learner.remove_cbs` to remove unpicklable callbacks.

.. tip::

>    We found that some of given callback are only useful during training phase, not during serving. Therefore, removing callback will not affect inference results.

Reviewer 2: remove - this feels like implementation detail that doesn't make sense to most users

Loading a learner with BentoML
------------------------------

.. warning::

>    We recommend users to to use ``load_model`` inside a :obj:`bentoml.Service`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We recommend users to not use ``load_model`` inside a :obj:`bentoml.Service`.
```

   You should always use ``bentoml.models.get("model:tag").to_runner()`` to get
   a :obj:`bentoml.Runner` instead. See also :ref:`Runners <concepts/runner:Using Runners>`_ for more information.

To load the learner back to memory, use ``load_model``:

.. code-block:: python

   learner = bentoml.fastai.load_model("fastai_sentiment:latest")

You can then proceed to test the learner with prediction inputs:

.. code-block:: python

>    learner.predict("I really liked that movie!")

Reviewer: This section is conflicting with the message above. I understand you are trying to say that `load_model` can be used in testing. I feel we do not need to include it here as it is not specific to fastai and may cause confusion with the message above.

Author: Is it better if I move the warning above to below L173?

.. admonition:: About the behaviour of :code:`load_model()`

   Since fastai doesn't provide a good support for GPU during inference, BentoML
   by default will only support CPU inference for fastai. If you want to use
   GPU, you should get the ``PyTorch`` model from ``learner.model`` and then use
   ``bentoml.pytorch`` instead.

   Additionally, if the model uses ``mixed_precision``, then the loaded model will also be converted to FP32.
   See `mixed precision <https://docs.fast.ai/callback.fp16.html>`_ to learn more about mixed precision.

Using Runners
-------------

.. seealso::

   :ref:`The general Runner documentation<concepts/runner:Using Runners>`: general information about the Runner concept and their usage.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Specifying Runner Resources<concepts/runner:Specifying Required Resources>`: more information about Runner options.

To use fastai runner locally, access the model via ``get`` and convert it to
a runner:

.. code-block:: python

   runner = bentoml.fastai.get("fastai_sentiment").to_runner()

   runner.init_local()

   runner.predict.run("I really liked that movie!")

.. tip::

>    ``runner.predict.run`` should generally be a drop-in replacement for ``learner.predict`` regardless of your learner type.

Reviewer: Initializing runners locally for testing is probably not needed. We can perhaps combine the section with the section below.

.. admonition:: About adaptive batching in fastai

>    fastai doesn't have support for multiple inputs, hence adaptive batching

Reviewer: By "multiple inputs" do we mean "batched inputs", because "multiple inputs" can be interpreted as multiple input types, e.g. `input=(metadata=JSON(), image=Image())`.

Author: fastai does not support batched inputs and multiple input types.

Reviewer: multiple input -> batched input?

   is disabled for fastai. Refers to :ref:`guides/batching:Adaptive Batching` for more information.

> Building a Service for fastai

Reviewer: We can use a complete service code example to demonstrate fastai.
